---
title: My experience in summer 2020 research 
layout: page 
---


# Summer 2020 reflection
This summer working on the transmission evolution project has been a deeply enriching experience. It was difficult to predict wher eour research would go, and how we adapt to the challenges of a remote format, but I believe we have impressive results. I have gained skills to be a much stronger editor and to take on a greater role in MID. I feel much more confident in my ability to push and pull from Git, identitfy problems with editing and validation, and understand the many features of Atom. This knowlede didn't just appear from learning, but also from teaching and presenting to others, specifically in the HMT Summer Experience. Our work with Jupyter Notebooks was also very valuable to me, and I think the methods I learned this summer can be applied to a wide range of corpora. Moreover, from so much time working with different manuscripts, I am much better at reading Greek and deciphering individual scribes' hands than I was three months ago. Ultimately, our project was a lesson in adaptability and finding creative ways to understand centuries old texts. I don't think anyone could have guessed how this summer would go, but it was just as rewarding as I had hoped. 
# One thing I am thinking about doing 
I know everything I have learned and helped to accomplish will be valuable to me as a Classics major and student at Holy Cross. This summer has taught me methods I believe will be very important as I develop my ideas for a thesis, and helped me start ro narrow down potential topics. I know, for example, I want to do more with Jupyter Notebooks and keep working on how to use them with different bodies of texts. I'm also very excited to be able to help more in MID. Previously, it seemed like I was the one always looking on and trying to understand, but now I am confident I can be much more productive at editing, and better at explaining the work to others. On one last note, as my familiarity with Git has increased, I've decided to start a repo where I attempt t o make a searchable text version of the <em>Opuscula Hebraea, Graeca, Latina, Gallica: prosaica et metrica</em> of Anna Maria Van Schurman, a fifteenth century polyglot, artist, and advocate for women's education. I've immedietely run into the problem of not knowing how to transcribe Hebrew, so I'm not sure how far I will be able to get i nthis project, but I plan to keepworking on it as much as I can. One quote that has always stuck out to me is “I cannot remember the books I've read any more than the meals I have eaten; even so, they have made me.", by Ralph Waldo Emerson. We never truly read books alone, rather our understanding is always shaped by our experiences and the other books we have read previously. I think the same principle applies here. Because of this summer, I want to take on more digital projects and more work with Homer, and because of this summer, anything I take on or read will always be informed in some part by all I have learned in these past two months. 
https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/annecss/summer2020notebooks/master
